---
layout: post
title: My two pennies to Open Source
tags:
  - open source
  - rails
  - log
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 19 Nov 2010 - Madrid

Today i was wondering were did some queris from my Rails log come from, so I did the logical thing, I went and installed the excellent "query_trace":https://github.com/ntalbott/query_trace by "Nathaniel Talbott":https://github.com/ntalbott

But then I confronted the same proble as usual, this plugin is all or nothing, it is installed and inserting into your log or not installed at all.

I am sure many of you have some soft link solution to this, or simply install/uninstall it when needed. Well I particulary had have enough of that and decided to scratch my own itch as it's said in the open source community.

So before anything I google for it and Voilá: I found "Jon Leighton's":http://jonathanleighton.com/ fork on query_trace for doing exactly what I wanted:

p(((. «Adds query origin tracing to your logs - this fork allows the plugin to be turned on/off in database.yml»

So I installed, tried and... no luck. it didn't work for me and it did not have ntalbotts's last changes. So I openned the damn source and fixed both things, and for Stallman's sake put them back online on GitHub.

As you can see there, my contribution is no big deal, just an _if_ clause around the main include at the *init.rb* file so to prevent the plugin actual loading unless you have explicitly asked for it from the *database.yml* section for the corresponding environment.

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
require 'query_trace'

class ::ActiveRecord::ConnectionAdapters::AbstractAdapter
  if  ActiveRecord::Base.connection.instance_variable_get("@config")[:query_trace]
    include QueryTrace
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}

Thus if you want a "switchable query_trace":https://github.com/oinak/query_trace , don't hesitate and Fork me on "https://github.com/oinak/query_trace":(https://github.com/oinak/query_trace).

